sometimes people talk about support
vector machines as large margin
classifiers in this video I'd like to
tell you what that means and this will
also give us a useful picture of what an
SVM hypothesis may look like here's my
cost function for the support vector
machine we're here on the Left I've
plotted my costs one of Z function that
I use for positive examples and on the
right are plotted my cost zero of Z
function where I have here Z on the
horizontal axis now let's think about
what it takes to make these cost
functions small if you have a positive
example so if Y is equal to one then
cost one of Z is zero only when Z is
greater than or equal to one so in other
words if you have a positive example we
really want theta transpose X to be
greater than equal to one and conversely
if Y is equal to zero notice cos zero of
Z function then is only in this region
where a Z is less than equal to one that
we have that cost zero of Z is equal to
zero and this is an interesting property
of the support vector machine right
which is that if you have a positive
example so if Y is equal to one then all
we really need is that theta transpose X
is greater than equal to zero and that
will mean that we classified correctly
because you know if theta transpose X is
greater than zero or hypothesis will
predict zero and similarly if you have a
negative example then really all we want
is that theta transpose X is less than
zero and now make sure we got the
example right but a support vector
machine wants a bit more than that it
says you know don't just barely get the
example of our ignorance so then um
don't just have it just a little bit
bigger than zero what I really want is
for this to be quite a lot bigger than
zero say maybe greater than equal to 1
and then want this to be much less than
zero maybe I want it less than or equal
to minus one and so this builds in an
extra safety factor or safety margin
factor into the support vector machine
logistic regression does something
similar to of course but let's see what
happens so let's see what the
consequences of this are in the context
of a support vector machine concretely
what life is UNIX is consider a case
where we set this constant C to be a
very large value so let's imagine we set
C to be a very large value maybe a
hundred thousand some huge number let's
see what a support vector machine will
do if C is very very large then when
minimizing this optimization objective
we're going to be highly motivated to
choose a value so that this first term
is equal to zero so let's try to
understand the optimization problem in
the context of what would it take to
make this first term in the objective
equal to zero because you know maybe
we'll set C to some huge constant and
this will hope this should give us
additional intuition about what sort of
hypotheses a support vector machine
learns so we saw already that whenever
you have a training example with a label
of y equals 1 if you want to make that
first term 0 what you need is to find a
value of theta so that theta transpose X
I is greater than or equal to 1 and
similarly whenever we have an example
with label 0 in order to make sure that
it costs called 0 of Z in order to make
sure that causes 0 you need that theta
transpose X only is less than or equal
to minus 1 so if we think of our
optimization problem as now really
choosing parameters ensure that this
first term is equal to 0 what we're left
with is the following optimization
problem we're going to minimize that
first term zeros of C times 0 because
we're going to choose parameters so that
is equal to 0 plus 1/2 and then you know
that second term
and this first term that's C times zero
so let's just cross that up because I
know that's going to 0 p 0 and this will
be subject to the constraint that theta
transpose X I is greater than or equal
to 1 if Y I is equal to 1 and theta
transpose X I is less than or equal to
minus 1 whenever you have a negative
example and it turns out that when you
solve this optimization problem what you
minimize is as a function of the
parameters theta you get a very
interesting decision boundary completely
if you look at a data set like this with
positive and negative examples this data
is linearly separable by that I mean
that there exists you know a straight
line where there is as many different
straight lines they can separate the
positive and negative examples perfectly
for example here's one decision boundary
that separates the positive and negative
examples but somehow that doesn't look
like a very natural one right over by
drawing even worse one you know here's
another decision boundary that separates
the positive and negative examples were
just barely but neither of those seem
like particularly good choices the
support vector machine will instead
choose this decision boundary which I'm
drawing in black and that seems like a
much better decision boundary than
either of the ones that I drew in
magenta or in green the black line seems
like a more robust separator that no
just does a better job separating the
positive and negative examples and
mathematically what that does is this
black decision boundary has a larger
distance that distance is called the
margin but if I draw these two extra
blue lines we see that the black
decision boundary it has some you know
larger minimum distance from any of my
training examples whereas the magenta
and the green lines they come awfully
close to the training examples and it
that seems to do a less good job
separating the positive and negative
is that my plank line and so this
distance is called the margin of the
support vector machine and this gives
the SVM a certain robustness because it
tries to separate the data with as large
a margin as possible so the support
vector machine is sometimes also called
a large margin classifier and this is
actually a consequence of the
optimization problem we wrote down on
the previous slide I know that you might
be wondering how is it that the
optimization problem
I wrote down on the previous slide how
does that lead to this large margin
classifier I know I haven't explained
that yet and in the next video I'm going
to sketch a little bit of the intuition
about why that optimization problem
gives us this large margin classifier
but this is a useful picture to keep in
mind if you're trying to understand what
are the source of hypotheses that an SVM
will choose that is trying to separate
the positive and negative examples with
as big a margin as possible
want to say one last thing about large
margin classifiers and this intuition so
we worked out this large margin
classification setting in the case of
when ste that regularization constant
was very large right I think I said that
to a hundred thousand something so given
an a given a data set like this here
maybe we'll use that decision boundary
that separates the positive and negative
examples of large margin
now the SVM is actually slightly more
sophisticated than this large margin
view might suggest and in particular if
all you're doing is use a large margin
classifier then your learning algorithms
can be sensitive to outliers so let's
say add an extra positive example like
that shown you know on the on the screen
if you add one example then it seems as
if to separate the data above a large
margin you know maybe I'll end up
learning a decision boundary like that
right that is the magenta line and it's
really not clear that based on the
single outlier based on like a single
example it's really not clear that the
such a good idea to change my decision
boundary from the black one over to the
magenta one so if see if the
regularization parameter C were very
large then this is actually what the SVM
will do or change the decision boundary
from the black to the magenta one but if
C were reasonably small or if you were
to use the OC not too large then you
still end up with this black decision
boundary and of course if the data were
not linearly separable so you had some
positive examples in here or if you had
some negative examples in here then the
SVM will also do the right thing and so
this picture of a large margin
classifier that's really that's really
the picture that gives better intuition
only for the case of when the
regularization program to C is very
large
and then just remind you this
corresponds C plays a role similar to 1
over lambda where lambda is a mysterious
parameter we have previously and so is
only of one over lambda is very large or
equivalently lambda is very small that
you end up with things like this magenta
decision boundary but in practice you
know when applying support vector
machines when C is not very very large
like that it can ignore of you can do a
better job ignoring a few outliers like
here and they'll also do fine and do
reasonable things even if your data is
more than the reciprocal
but tell when we talk about bias and
variance in the context of support
vector machines which will do a little
bit later hopefully all of these
trade-offs involving the regularization
parameter will become clearer at that
time so I hope that gives some intuition
about how these support vector machine
functions as a large margin classifier
that tries to separate the data with a
large margin technically this you know
picture of this view is true only when
the parameter C is very large which is a
useful way to think about support vector
machines there was one missing step in
this video which is there why is it that
that optimization problem we were wrote
down on these slides how does that
actually lead to the large margin
classifier I didn't do that in this
video in the next video I will sketch a
little bit more of the math behind that
to explain that that set of the
reasoning of how the optimization
problem we wrote out results in a large
margin classifier